cool IELTS general we're looking at
writing task 1 and we're going to wait I
need to record this in my computer let
me start again hello and welcome to this
live class this one's on IELTS general
it's on IELTS writing task 1 the letter
that you need to write in this one we're
going to focus more on the structure
we're going to focus more on well we're
going to focus on grammar we're going to
look at important verbs because in
English there are 16 different verbs
right 16 crazy but of the 16 there are
really only four that are commonly used
and important maybe you'll use some
different verbs in your writing but
let's take a look at the grammar in the
letter first of all we need to
understand what verbs are what they do
right they're really important in
English verbs change to show when
something happens happened or will
happen let's say for example you've got
a dental appointment or let's say you're
writing a letter about a dental
appointment let's say the dental
appointment was in the past you're
running to your dentist so you could say
I visited the dentist I visited there's
your past verb or let's say it's now or
today I am visiting the dentist or let's
say it's in the future I will visit the
dentist so verbs locate something in
time and tell you when it is we change
that verb for the past present or future
if we look at this verb here a simple
one like go we can see all the different
changes it makes it goes from go like I
go to the dentist I went to the dentist
I'll go to the dentist I'm going to the
dentist I was going to the dentist I
will be going to the dentist I've been
to the dentist I had been to the dentist
I will have been to the dentist I have
been going to the dentist I had been
going to the dentist I used to go to the
dentist and there are in fact more which
I didn't put on here because they are
extremely rare
why so many
Changez why so many verb changes it's
crazy well what we want to do our verbs
tell us two things they tell us about
the time of past present or future but
they also have another alternative
meaning okay and I want to get to that
let's look at these important verbs
here's your letter what I wanted to do
is identify the verbs in this paragraph
I'm going to disappear I want you to
find the verbs first let's think about
that please type into the chat what the
verbs are good Jagjit well done Nishant
excellent good dhenuka Maria well done
good so he all done you've got them cool
let's have a look let's have a look
let's just read through this so I am a
returning vib guest at your esteemed
hotel I've recently attended an
international education conference and
stayed in my regular suite I am actually
writing with regard to a lost credit
card that I believe I left behind there
are some words in here that represent a
time that indicate time reference what
are they well what have we got we've got
am present attended past stayed past
this should actually be am writing am
writing this is a two-part verb I am
writing I believe and I left these are
the verbs every sentence has a verb by
the way so if you're inaccurate if
you're not accurate with your verbs this
is going to be very problematic and your
scores we lower
conversely if you're accurate with your
verbs this is going to increase your
scores again I want you to identify the
verbs in this paragraph think about the
words that indicate time
good well done funk me Nishant excellent
good there's some interesting ones here
there are some converts there are some
hidden verbs let's have a look
last week I stayed in room 506 I used
the safe for some valuable items which
words are indicating time including my
credit card when I checked out on
Thursday I realized that I left my
credit card in the room safe I sure it's
still where I left it it is a gold Amex
so if we have a closer look we can see
stayed used checked out realized left I
am I'm its ears left and ears one more
and then going to dig a bit deeper into
these verbs and look at the meaning of
them and why we use them so please
identify the verbs in this paragraph hmm
it's a bit trickier this one
if watching on YouTube well done saw
what good Jackson excellent good muna
goodness shunt alright these are some
these are quite tricky these this
paragraphs quite tricky it's not simple
verbs that's for sure I would like so
here's a verb but this is an interesting
addition verb to confirm that it is
indeed still there and would appreciate
if you could post post it to me at 16
Mary Street Benny long double five
double six so would like is would
appreciate could post so here we're
using we've got the verb the base verb
like like appreciate or post but we've
added an additional modal verb they're
called
because we're requesting the hotel
manager to do something I would like it
this is a very polite thing to do I
would appreciate it
could you please post it to me for
example right for IELTS general trained
there are four super important verbs
basically this is how it works in
English this verb here accounts for
about 50% of usage although there are 16
different verbs this one the simple
present we use 50% of the time this one
the simple past we use about 25 percent
of the time and these two we use about
five percent of the time the other
percentage whatever it is it's very
small we use all the other different 12
verbs
so we really need to understand these
verbs and what we want to understand
with regards to these verbs is their
meaning because if I say I live in
Melbourne or I say i am living in
Melbourne or I lived in Melbourne or I
have lived in Melbourne they all use the
same verb live live live and live but
they're in a different form and this
different form actually has its own
meaning why four important verbs well if
I say I live I'm referring to something
factual and permanent I live in
Melbourne it's a fact and it's permanent
whereas if I say I'm living in Melbourne
it's got a sense of being temporary it's
got a sense of being it's not going to
last forever
it's temporary I'm living in Melbourne
where are you living or if I say I lived
in Melbourne it's got a sense of being a
part fact or I have lived in Melbourne
is past that's currently relevant so
these have different meanings you need
to know which one to use and which one
to you and which one to use and how to
use it accurately so let's talk about
events verbs that are factual and
permanent like this I live in Melbourne
I work as an English teacher I go to bed
at 11 p.m. I enjoy my job
I ride a scooter I'm a teacher I'm using
these verbs this simple present verb
live-work ago enjoy ride em because I'm
conveying information that's factual and
permanent just type into the chat one
sentence maybe one of these you can use
one of these about something factual and
permanent about you what's factual and
permanent about you type it into the
chat please you need me
Nishant i watch cricket good perfect yes
I watch crew to follow me I'm a human
yes I traveled by bus Nisha and
Australia was India yes I know it's not
looking good for the Aussies I live in
Delhi Jagjit says good
tool and permanent fine right that's
right that's all we got there I want to
look at this paragraph and I want you to
identify the factual permanent verbs
okay the factual permanent in other
words the simple present so if you can
do that just the factual permanent verbs
good munna and nammed
[Music]
cool all right
let's have a look at let's look for
factual impairment verbs I am a
returning guest at your esteemed hotel
in fact I am a VIP I visit your hotel
once a year in fact I have visited mmm
that's a bit different your hotel more
than 10 times I like the place I hope to
return in the future there you go
I didn't write the answers so what are
they AM am visit this one is different I
have visited your hotel see the
difference there I visit your hotel I
have visited your hotel it has a
different secondary meaning I like the
place there's the verb like and I hope
so AM am visit like and hope right let's
think about the temporary verbs now ok
into these we use this one it's the same
examples as before but these verbs in
this in this tense M plus verbing and
verbing or our verb being etc has a
sense of being temporary not permanent
so I could say I'm living in Melbourne
if I say that to you it means that I'm
not a permanent local it just means
temporarily I'm living in Melbourne I'm
working as an English teacher it's not
something I want to do forever I'm just
doing it temporarily I'm going to bed at
11 p.m. tonight
it's going to be a one-off thing I'm
enjoying my new job currently maybe in
the future I will not enjoy it
I'm eating in banana temporarily I'm
paying off my credit card
hopefully temporarily not permanently
cool let's just go straight to identify
the temporary verbs in this paragraph
only good judge Jeet Muhammad well done
good Nicki good good good well done
let's have a look so I have been living
in Melbourne hmm this is a bit different
this isn't a temporary one I have been
living in Melbourne 15 years I am
working as an electrician I'm also doing
some part-time work as a commander I
enjoy the work so we've got a range of
verb tenses here got three different
verb tenses here and I tell you what the
IELTS examiner's love a different range
of verb tenses let's have a look so have
been living is not the one we're after
we're looking for temporary I am working
as an electrician temporarily I'm also
doing some part-time work as a carpenter
temporarily I enjoy this is permanent
permanent I enjoy the work what's the
difference between do and is doing for
example what's the difference between I
work and I am working what's the
difference between I live and I am
living what's the difference between I
study and I am studying because this is
important to understand if you want to
get a high score in IELTS writing I live
in Melbourne permanently I'm living in
Melbourne temporarily where you live is
it permanent or temporary please type it
into the chat and use whichever verb you
need to use depending on whether you're
there permanently or there temporarily
where do you live where do you live
where do you live follow me where do you
live no know me where you're living say
I am I live in Delhi or good yes muna I
live in Karachi permanently Nikki I live
in Sydney so it's a permanent thing
shan't I am living in Australia so it's
a temporary thing Jagjit I live in Delhi
dhenuka I live in Colombo permanent
me sir he I live in Ukraine I'm living
in Kiev good so you've got to I live in
Ukraine but temporarily living in Kiev
follow me I live in China cool fine
that's the difference there and it's an
important difference think about it I'm
at the end what we're going to do is
write a practice letter and I want you
to think carefully about your verbs
nissan says I live on Mars that's fine I
hope it's not too hot this time of year
past facts let's think about past facts
past facts this is another one this is
incredibly common this verb right I
lived in Melbourne past fact I worked as
an English teacher past fact I went to
bed at 11:00 p.m. last night past fact I
enjoyed my job I ate a banana I paid off
my credit card past fat's identify the
past fact in these paragraph in this
paragraph I should say
good jug did good Nishant yes yes yes
yes hmm
enjoy I don't know if enjoys past fact
it's more like a permanent thing left
and leave hmm all right let's take a
look all right so we're looking for past
facts I visited your hotel in June
sounds pretty good it was excellent I
mean this isn't an opinion but still can
be considered a pass fact I really enjoy
staying there past fact I enjoy staying
at your hotel past fact no however this
time I left from leave I left modeling
in my room hmm definitely something to
do with the past there can you please
look for it for me so the answers are
visited was and left enjoy is a
permanent verb and look while this is a
request for help it's a little bit
different so if you had visited was and
left well done they are the pasta facts
here's where it gets tricky I think
those first three that I showed you are
quite straightforward but then we get
into this one and this one is very
problematic I see a lot of problems in
people's writing with this verb and it's
used 5 percent of the time in English so
it's important it's not as important as
the other verbs but it's important
enough that you want to get it correct
every time so what does it mean that
means currently relevant I have lived in
Melbourne this this is where it gets
weird because it's talking about the
past I have lived in mobbin in the past
but
I'm pulling that past experience into
the present because it's currently
relevant to talk about it for example
you can imagine people talking about
Australia for example let's say you're
living in a you're in Argentina and
you're sitting at a table and they're
talking about Australia and you can say
oh I've lived in Melbourne I have lived
in Melbourne you're pulling a past
experience into the present because it's
currently relevant or let's say you're
sitting around a table and people are
talking about teaching English because
they are I've worked as an English
teacher I'm pulling a past experience
into the present because it's currently
relevant or if people are talking about
eating bananas maybe you're sitting
around with a group of monkeys and you
can say I've eaten banana I know what
bananas taste like because it's
currently relevant or you can tell your
parents I've paid off my credit card mum
and dad I'm very happy I'm a very proud
young man just joking cool please
identify the currently relevant verbs in
this paragraph
[Music]
so
all done good Waleed good Niki good job
Jeet
yes hmm
check that one not sure if that's
currently relevant looks more like a
past fact to me right let's have a look
okay so we're looking for currently
relevant verbs verbs that happened but
now are important or relevant although I
have been to your hotel several times
this time I did not enjoy myself hmm
past fact maybe there were mosquitoes in
the room I was bitten several times I
think I may have contracted malaria
right maybe you don't want to write your
letters like this this one's a bit crazy
let's have a look so have been I have
been to your hotel several times
currently relevant it's talking it's
pulling something from the past a past
experience into the present because it's
currently relevant although I have been
to your hotel several times this time I
did not enjoy so we've got a negative
for did not enjoy we've got a negative
past fact it's a past fact but this time
you did not enjoy it there were
mosquitoes in the room past fact I was
bitten this is a past fact but it's it's
it's it's passive I have contracted
malaria right so the mosquito bit you
you can just a malaria you're pulling
that experience into the present moment
because it's currently relevant so this
begs an interesting question that
questions what's the difference between
did for example I ate a banana and I
have eaten a banana what's the
difference between I've been to China
and I went to China what's the
difference between I visited the dentist
and I have visited the dentist well it
depends on what you're trying to say
right because if I say I lived in
Melbourne I'm talking about a past fact
but if I say I have lived in Melbourne
I'm talking I'm pulling my experience
into the present was a currently
relevant thing and the other thing is
this when you use a past fact you use a
specific time for example I lived in
Melbourne in 2000
and 14 specific time with this verb here
you cannot use a specific time I have
lived in Melbourne you can't say you
cannot say I have lived in Melbourne in
it just sounds wrong because you're
talking about a past fact you want to
use a specific time right so there's a
bit of a difference I ate a banana 2
hours ago
I've eaten a banana I paid off my credit
card last week I have paid off my credit
card there's a difference one refers to
a specific time and to past fact the
others experiential it's talking about
an experience and you're pulling that
past thing into the present to talk
about it because it's currently relevant
it's a tricky thing and it requires
practice let's do a task now that we
understand these verbs let's look at
this writing task one prompt you
recently returned home from the airport
and realize that you are missing a bag
you believe you let it in the waiting
room write a letter to the manager of
the airport lost and found
identify who you are describe the bag in
its contents
describe what you want the meta to do
and write at least 150 words let's make
this a bit quicker I don't want you to
write 150 words what I wanted to do is
just write these three paragraphs okay
don't worry about the Dear John or the
whatever it is I just want you to write
a program identify who you are two or
three sentences I want you to describe
the bag and its contents two or three
sentences and I want you to describe
what you want the manager to do two or
three sentences that's it let's just
focus on this part of the letter I'll
give you ten minutes to write two or
three sentences for each these dot
points think about your verbs choose
your verbs wisely yes run Johnny you can
say I have lived in the unite
State for eight years because it's a
duration of time if you're on YouTube
please type your answers into the chat
and also don't forget to give me a
thumbs up if you would be so kind
you
good Nikki well done
Kotick gee I missed or I lost
you
so Munna I have traveled in your airline
today so you're talking about a specific
time so you're going to not use have
traveled you'll use I traveled on your
airline today because you use a specific
time right past fact past fact
you
go exactly we just say the bag was black
or ears let's put it into present
permanent let's talk about the bag in
the present the bag is black it weighs
16 kilos it looks expensive good run
Johnny very nice use of the herbs there
I travelled from New York to London on
the 23rd of February past fact good jug
date it is an American Tourister bag
[Music]
good judging has expensive things inside
it what like tug cheat good
I visited Dubai International Airport
last Friday past fact my flight number
was blah blah blah past fact it was a
return ticket
you
i believe i miss i lost the bag in the
same lounge
you
good I left my bag at the airport mister
can leave last week past fact good
kindly let me know if you find my bag
good Nikki
done yes good detail my bag is a Fendi
large tote bag it is black in color and
the unique thing about the bag is that
it has a long red strap permanent
factual the contents of my bag are my
ipod ipad iphone clearly an Apple fan
documents and a mini wallet with my
credit cards inside good Nicky Bamie
excellent
just remember I'm not sure if you're on
your phone but make sure you use correct
punctuation capital letters etc
one more minutes popping your answer
[Music]
good Nikki well done good future verbs I
will appreciate it you could send
someone to check the waiting room as
described my number years right goodies
of verbs well done run Johnny the laptop
bag is royal polo and make it has my
name Paul Smith engraved the middle bar
at the center it mainly contains some
critical official documents which I'd
like to get back at the earliest good
interesting real story
well done few more minutes to get your
final paragraph in describe what you
want the manager to do you might have to
use future verb or modal verbs could
would etc
[Music]
now I believe that you would find my bag
in the business lounge good that's fine
once you find my bag please send it to
me in Riyadh my address is good well
done all right that's probably enough of
that I just wanted you to get a set of
why we use different verbs because they
convey different meanings and it's
important in a single paragraph you
might have three or even four different
verb tenses you don't have to you can
just have a paragraph with all past
tense past facts that's fine
but sometimes it's impossible to say
what you want with the one verb so you
may have to in fact use several
different verbs so here's an example of
what I wrote it's not very good I did it
very quickly let me disappear and show
you so dear sir/madam I'm writing to let
you know that I have left currently
relevant it happened in the past
currently relevant I have left my bag in
the waiting room of the airport no
specific time given if I gave a specific
time like last Friday
this verb would have to change and I
would have to say I left my bag in the
waiting room of the airport on Friday
but because I have no specific time I'm
using this one and I'm totally talking
to them about a currently relevant
experience I have left my bag in the
waiting room bla bla bla I was I was in
a hurry and I accidentally forgot it
past fact past fact
the bag is a black and tan Gucci bag
with a green star permanent factual
present it is worth 2,000 whoops $2,000
my mistake there let me cross that out
there's worth $2,000 I am really worried
about it could you please return it to
me this is just a phrase could you
please plus verb could you please get me
a drink
could you please return my bag you need
to rip memorize phrases like this I am
staying at a backpackers in the city
with some friends is this permanent I am
with some friends or is this a temporary
thing because I'm using this verb
because if I said I stay at a
backpackers in the city that would
convey a sense of being permanent
because I'm using this verb I'm staying
at a backpackers in the city with some
friends possibly I'm just doing it for
one or two nights
it's temporary cool so I just wanted to
show you in this lesson verbs because
well they're extremely complex the
confusing but unfortunately they're also
extremely important and so that's not
the end of them there are more there are
others once I just showed you today are
the four important ones that you need to
be aware of right let's just go to QA
and I hope I've raised your awareness of
verbs if you have any questions feel
free to type them into the chat whether
it be about verbs or anything else good
what says I have wrote the whole litter
hmm what about I have written the whole
letter because when you use that
currently relevant verb the second part
needs to be like written eaten beaten
said too different than just the simple
past tense any questions please put them
into the chat
Nishant sharma do you play cricket for
India by the way I think you're a bowler
from India the timetable will change for
next week if you're watching this on
YouTube sign up to the webinar below and
for you guys who need to do it on zoom'
if you're a free member we will send you
that's Ashanti Sharma gotcha
we will send you an invitation to sign
up for the new timetable okay Munna so
if we are writing a letter to the
neighbor so can we write in the last
your neighborhood
it depends that's not about verbs fun we
J in the speaking test if the examiner
asked me where do you live what should
be the correct answer well it depends
fun wean do you permanently live
somewhere in which case you could say I
live in China or are you temporarily
living somewhere in which case you say i
am living in china i'm currently living
in china temporary I live in China I'm a
local and it's permanent right
so yes the skills you just learned about
verbs also are used in your speaking
test by the way if we have an excellent
excellent method for our IELTS speaking
we've developed this really cool method
which makes it so simple but anyway I'll
leave that up to you cool all right I
might leave it there because I've been
teaching all day I am exhausted thanks
very much for coming and mu no I'm not
sore about your question there thanks
very much for coming I hope that was
helpful
yes be on the lookout for
our emails because I want you to come to
our next webinar series whether you've
passed the IELTS or not if you're free
member upgrade your account if you're
not a member
become a free member I'll check to you
guys soon ok bye